I'm Phil Gail welcome to the program the
UN Security Council is trying to reach a
compromise to pause the fighting in Gaza
a vote is expected shortly an initial
draft resolution called for an urgent
and Lasting cessation of hostilities to
allow the unimpeded access of
humanitarian Aid negotiators are now
seeking a compromise acceptable to the
US which has blocked previous calls for
a ceasefire International pressure on
Israel to end hostilities has grown as
faces a deepening humanitarian
crisis our correspondent Janelle Duman
joins us from Washington welcome Janelle
why does this vote keep getting
postponed indeed now this vote has been
Pro postponed from yesterday to this
morning to noon to mid-afternoon now to
late afternoon eastern time it might not
be the last postponing uh hard to tell
at this stage but essentially
negotiators are looking for language
that would keep the US from vetoing a
ceasefire resolution in Gaza now if you
recall earlier this month the US did
just that it vetoed a resolution in
contrast to the other un Security
Council Members who overwhelmingly
supported the resolution but the US
position has always been that a
ceasefire only helps Hamas however this
time around although the White H house
has said that it can't support any
reference to a sensation of hostilities
it has pushed for watered down language
calling for the suspension of
hostilities now this latest draft
resolution that was made available had
both phrases in it so first it called
for the Urgent suspension of hostilities
and then urgent steps to be taken
towards the sustained cessation of
hostilities but this word cessation it
remains a sticking point for us negoti
ators another sticking point is that the
US wants to see text in the resolution
specifically condemning Hamas uh for its
actions on October 7 the text did not
have that it had a more General
condemnation of Terror terrorist acts in
the world but especially the negotiators
negotiating on the behalf of the Arab
states uh they've said that they don't
want to introduce any more changes in
the draft unless the US promises not to
veto and that is how we got to the
waiting game that we find ourselves in
now right and so the the we have sides
that seem quite dug in and the us being
the hold out what are the chances that
the US will vote in favor of something
in the
end well the protracted nature of these
negotiations kind of make it hard to
tell on the one hand as you say it shows
that there's a really big gap to bridge
between especially the Arab negotiators
and the US negotiators on the other hand
the fact that they are talking and it's
taking this long that could also mean
that the US is willing to negotiate at
least on some points remember that you
the US's options here aren't limited to
voting in favor or vetoing the us could
also abstain and because you only need
nine votes and no vetos for the
resolution to pass that would then be a
scenario where this resolution passes
and just the fact that the US has
indicated a little bit of flexibility
now with regards the language is already
that already represents some movement
from its previously very very tightly
held position and that in turn could
reflect growing impatience with Israel
uh let's not forget that pressure is
mounting on the Biden Administration to
push Israel to do more to protect
civilians and as uh the death toll in
Gaza approaches 20,000 according to the
Hamas run Health Ministry it's clear
that us urging isn't doing that much and
the US is now in a position where it
really has to review all the options it
has on the table okay thank you for that
Janelle Janelle dumal in
Washington well the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza says at least 100
Palestinians have been killed by the
latest Israeli air strikes in the last
day several countries including Germany
classify Hamas as a terrorist
organization entire buildings reduced to
Rubble in
Rafa many civilians were killed in the
strike despite the city's designation as
a safe Zone by
Israel a Survivor pulled from the rubble
Mourns her younger sister and says she
now narrowly escaped death
herself a wall collapsed towards me
there was maybe just an inch left
between me and the wall I held it there
it was so heavy I started screaming for
help hoping someone anyone could hear
me after being freed from the rubble
another Palestinian woman is taken to
al- NASA hospital where she consoles
surviving family members wrapped in
white are the bodies of her two
grandchildren we were sleeping safely in
our home those are kids kids and us
women there was no one
else my two grandkids were killed Amir
here she was just 2 weeks
old her birth wasn't even registered
yet she doesn't even have a birth
certificate
Palestinians here say they are left to
deal with the insufferable pain of loss
alone straight to our correspondent
Rebecca rits in Jerusalem welcome
Rebecca if Israel's president Herzog
says his country is ready for another
humanitarian pause people are bound to
ask well why is the fighting
continuing well Phil I can only assume
that the fighting is continuing because
Israel hasn't met its military aims yet
those military aims of eliminating Hamas
it is it is promised it is going to
continue until those aims are met and we
know that of course the fighting we did
see the fighting stop for several days
for that temporary ceasefire to allow
for the exchange of hostages but those
negotiations broke down and since then
the negotiations haven't been going on
as you rightly mentioned there Israel's
Israel pres Israel's president Isaac
Herzog has said that Israel would would
be willing ready to go back to the
negotiating table and over the weekend
there were reports that Israeli
negotiators and Qatari negotiators met
in Norway to discuss the resumption of
those talks and that that will continue
we're seeing the US defense secretary uh
Lloyd Austin now in Qatar also trying to
to get those talks back up and running
but so far uh they haven't begun and
we've heard from the other side there
has to be somebody to negotiate with and
Hamas saying that they're not not
willing to come to the negotiating table
until there is a complete ceasefire so
at the moment uh those talks stalled uh
and and not looking to resume anytime
soon though we know that in the past uh
they were also from both sides saying
that they weren't going to join the
talks and in the end they did and they
were successful in getting out more than
100 hostages and releasing also some
Palestinian prisoners and seeing a pause
in that fighting so the Hope Still
Remains that that will continue again
soon but at the the moment we're just
seeing the fighting continue so if no
pause in fighting uh is Israel likely to
scale back its ground offensive as the
United States has been calling
for we've certainly seen no sign of that
uh or any even indication from Israel
that they're willing to do that we know
that the fighting continues we're not
International journalists are not on the
ground we're not able to see exactly
what is going on we have to take
accounts media accounts from from the
from the ground from local reporters and
also what we're hearing from the Israeli
military uh and from all accounts the
fighting continues we know that air
strikes killed uh 13 people in a strike
in jabalia Camp that's in the very north
of the strip we also know that 28
Palestinians were killed in the south in
an air strike and that a hospital in the
north was also raided by ground troops
we know that the ground uh operation
continues so uh definitely no look of a
let up but as you mentioned the US
really pushing for Israel to move to
another phase of this war a less
intensive phase as they call it they're
really uh urging Israel to try to
diminish the civilian casualties to
diminish the amount of Palestinians that
are dying we know that the death toll is
nearly at 20,000 uh so you know huge
amount of people dying in the effort to
eliminate Hamas and the US really
pushing for Israel to look towards a
more targeted approach to try and put in
small specialized teams that will go
into the cities and and Target
specifically Hamas
leaders and Rebecca the Israeli Army
says it suspended several reservists as
a video showing the mocking Palestinian
detainees were circulated online what
more can you tell
us well it's not the first video of its
kind that we've seen circulating Phil
since the beginning of this war there
have been numerous videos of IDF
brutality and IDF humiliation that have
been circulated of often times on the
soldiers own social media accounts that
they're actually uh you know like
presenting this themselves uh on this
occasion and we've seen in other
occasions earlier in the week also in
Janine there were soldiers that went
into the mosque in Janine and and were
singing Hanukah songs over the Lou
speaker they were also reprimanded uh
and taken out of service that situation
is being investigated and this uh this
new video that has emerged showing uh
the idea of soldiers sitting there with
some Palestinians bound and blindfolded
on the ground smoking shisha and eating
chips and laughing about what they hope
for Gaza uh that is the latest video to
cause an uproar and as you rightly
mentioned that the IDF have they are
investigating the situation and they
told DW that the behavior of those
soldiers in the videos is deplorable uh
and they said that it stands in STK
contrast contrast to the values of the
IDF the Israeli military and that there
will be a disciplinary hearing and the
reserve OB erve Duty soldiers that were
on uh that were in that video were
suspended until further notice so
they're definitely at least trying to
take these uh accounts very very
seriously um but we don't know exactly
what will happen to these soldiers
whether whether there really will be a
major investigation or whether this sort
of presents some kind of culture within
the Israeli military that they're sort
of tacitly allowing this but certainly
these incidences are being investigated
and and the soldiers being potentially
punished for these acts thanks for that
Rebecca Rebecca rits in
Jerusalem let's pick up some of those
points with Doren spilman who speaks for
the IDF the Israeli military welcome to
DW we just heard there from Rebecca
about the possibility of Israel Defense
Forces taking a more targeted approach
is that something you're looking at and
what would that actually look
like thank you for having me uh you know
from the very beginning we've tried to
be uh very targeted and very precise in
what we're doing what we have to
understand is that we're dealing with
perhaps the most difficult uh Urban
landscape that has been approach from a
military perspective perhaps in the
world you're dealing with very close
Alleyways buildings very closely
situated next to each other and Hamas
which has embedded themselves amidst
those civilians and are keeping them
there and so this is an almost an
incredibly difficult battle for anyone
to fight certainly for the idea of to
fight and despite all of this we are
trying with our aerial support to gather
intelligence we try to choose our
Munitions very carefully we have called
off numerous flights and we're open to
ideas on how to do this better okay so
can can I just interrupt you there so
does that mean that um you're going to
proceed as carefully as you already have
or does that mean that when um the US uh
defense secretary says you can do this
in a more targeted way in an even more
targeted way that he's talking
nonsense look we are always open to
ideas uh certainly from Lloyd Austin
who's the US defense secretary has an
enormous amount of experience as do the
generals that are leading Israel and how
to be more precise when you're dealing
with this type of difficult Urban
landscape you know we also heard uh from
the defense minist the defense uh
secretary spokesman Kirby who said just
the other week that he doesn't know if
even the US would take the precautions
that Israel is taking to try to protect
civilian life I mean again with the the
at the end of the day you're dealing
with Hamas who is purposely holding
these people hostage their own civilians
and putting them in the line of fire
okay if anyone has an idea of how to do
this better we want to know because
that's our goal you say you're open to
suggestions okay I'll play you a short
clip now a comments from the US defense
secretary and your own defense minister
and then perhaps get your reaction
soon we will be able to to distinguish
between different areas in in Gaza in
every area uh where we achieve our
mission we will be able to uh transition
gradually uh to the next phase and start
working uh on bringing back local
population we also have some great
thoughts about um how to transition from
high-intensity operations to a lower
intensity and more surgical
operations okay so Doran Spelman you you
you said uh more surgical operations is
something you can look at but no changes
yet let's pick up the your defense um
Minister's comments about the 1.9
million Palestinians who are displaced
in Gaza does that wait wait I'll ask my
question and then you can come back to
me so we have nearly two million
Palestinians displaced in Gaza does that
mean that many of them from what we just
heard from your defense minister does
that mean many of them will soon be able
to return to the rubble of their former
homes first of all I want to correct
something that you said I am not saying
that nothing has changed up till now I
never said those words what I am saying
is that we're dealing with incredibly
difficult fighting in an incredibly
difficult difficult Urban setting one of
the things that we've done we've
provided proof as I mentioned earlier is
that we've called off aerial attacks
specifically because we recognize that
there are civilians in that area however
at the end of the day Israel is an
autonomous sovereign country our first
role is to protect Israeli civilians in
order for Israeli civilians to go to
sleep at night and I think the same
would be true of England Germany France
or America or any other country in the
world they would not tolerate a massive
terrorist entity that is calling for
their destruction to exist so Hamas has
to be destroyed how they're going to be
destroyed in the time frame we are
constantly flexible and constantly
trying to learn how to do this better
none of that addresses the question I I
asked you um let's move on though CU I'd
like your reaction to this latest video
that has surfaced on social media it
shows Israeli soldiers in the West Bank
laughing and eating snacks in a room
with at least seven detained and
blindfolded Palestinians how did this
video come about and what do you think
of the behavior of your
soldiers
the I thought you were going to play the
video in Li of playing the video what I
can tell you is that again I would have
to see the video that you're speaking
about an unconfirmed video here we go
[Music]
okay
so your
reaction again I can barely see what's
happening in that video and the videoos
unconfirmed and I from what I understand
you're you're you're perhaps trying to
speak about the behavior of IDF troops
IDF troops we have a very strict code of
conduct and anybody who violates that
code of conduct is held up to a very
high standard I think it's extremely
important to not lose sight of where
we're going with this if IDF troops
don't act correctly they're reprimanded
Kamas Fighters are told to rape kill and
maim Israeli civilians they are holding
right now 129 Israeli hostages and I
haven't heard you mention anything about
this talking to H I'm talking to
really think that
worldus are raping killing and not even
giving food to these people as opposed
to Israeli soldiers 350,000 of which
what I see in that video is Israeli
soldiers sitting around with detainees
on the ground I don't know what to make
of it I do know what to make of Hamas
terrorist all right and and and if I had
a spokesperson from Hamas I would be
asking them I'm asking you because
you're from the ID
about a a video that the IDF has
confirmed is genuine you've said that
that as far as you can tell um This
falls short of what you would expect
from your soldiers but the people would
look at this and note that this is just
one of several videos and images that
have emerged in recent weeks showing IDF
soldiers abusing or humiliating detained
Palestinians and then last week IDF
soldiers shot and killed killed Israeli
hostages who were believed at that time
to have been waving a a red flag and the
question becomes are your soldiers out
of
control again I'm first of all did not
say that this video represents anything
because I don't know that video it has
not been confirmed by the IDF nor am I
able to understand what's happening
there a bunch of guys sitting around
with people sitting around and detain
these on the ground idea of soldiers are
detaining Hamas terrorists who are
trying to kill them at all times and as
I mentioned to you earlier the IDF has a
very high level of Integrity that it
demands and of the 350,000 soldiers who
are now in reserves that were called
into reserves as a result of an imminent
threat against the Israeli population if
any of them are out of control or act
incorrectly they are called to task for
it and they are punished however I'm
trying to find out how are we are we
looking at this as some type of
contrasting to the behavior of a
murderous teror regime I'm
not let me just stop you there because
we're not
comparing love to hear are not comparing
and contrasting anything uh Doran Spiel
but what we are doing what I am doing is
speaking to you as a representative of
the IDF about the activities of the IDF
thank you so much for joining us have a
good
day you
too